(PBIX file cannot be attached as the file size is too big for GitHub, so pictures have been uploaded instead.)

As a music fan I couldn't skip the opportunity to analyse this Spotify dataset from Kaggle website.
It includes 1,159,764 records of songs released between the year 2000 and 2022, from a total of 61,445 different artists
and 82 music genres.

Each record includes its popularity rating on the platform, a value from 0 to 100, which is calculated using an algorithm 
based on the number of plays and how recent those plays are. Popularity ratings are often far from the maximum score: there
are up to 160,000 records in the dataset with 0 popularity. The average popularity index of the dataset is 18.38 points.

The average popularity index of the year 2022, the year with the highest average popularity, is 31.09 points.
Observing the graph of average popularity per year, we can see that this index increases according to the release year of 
the songs, i.e. recently published songs tend to have higher popularity.
The genre with the highest average popularity is "Pop", with 55.69 points. Pop is also the genre with the highest average 
popularity for each year in the dataset.

Regarding the popularity of the artists, we have included a bar chart with the top 10 of the entire dataset, including a 
legend indicating their musical genre. The artist with the highest popularity is NewJeans, a South Korean teen band that 
debuted in 2022.

Another variable we found interesting is the song mode. Major and minor scales are the two modes used in the musical 
system. Generally and by tradition, major scales are associated with feelings of joy. The minor scales, on the other hand,
are related to sadness (ref. ArtsMusica.net). If we look at the average of the dataset, 63% of the songs have a major mode,
and 37% have a minor mode. If we look at each year separately, all of them also have a higher proportion of songs in major
mode.

We also found interesting the variable "Tempo", which indicates the rhythm or speed of a musical composition and is 
measured in BPM (beats per minute). If we look at the line chart in our report, we can see that 2001 has the lowest 
average tempo of all the years in the dataset, increasing until 2008, where it seems to stabilise.
From 2008 onwards the songs have on average a higher tempo than in previous years, although the difference is not very 
significant: just over 3 points between maximum and minimum values.
In the popularity-tempo scatter plot, a slightly higher popularity can be seen around the red line which represents the 
average tempo of the dataset. Although popular records with either very low or very high tempo can also be observed.

We can see a clearer trend in the scatter plot relating popularity to song length. The yellow line represents the average 
popularity of the dataset (18,38), and the red line the average length (4,16). It can be seen that the records with the 
highest popularities are around the average lenght line, although there exists 1 minute length records with more than 70 
popularity points, and on the other side, records of almost 1 hour length with popularities of around 50 points.







